---
layout: project
title: 4300 Final Assignment
description: A Holistic Analysis of the Boeing 737 Max Incidents Functions
technologies: 
image: 
---

The Boeing 727 Max incidents are some of the most widely known and devastating examples of engineering failures. It cost the lives of many, put employees in vulnerable situations, and cost Boeing its trust and reputation. As future engineers, it is important to question and understand the decisions that were made, the stakeholders at fault, and what could have been done so that we avoid the same fatal mistakes in our careers. 


When a catastrophe happens, it is expected that those at fault admit and learn from their mistakes. After the 737 Max incidents in 2018 and 2019, the world and especially teh family members of the crash victims expected Boeing to be transparent on what went wrong, who was at fault, and what they were going to do to make up for their fatal mistakes. However, this poses the question of how transparent companies should be with their stakeholders. In this case, how transparent should Boeing have been with the FAA, airlines, and the public about the 737 Max? Engineers have expectations to do no harm, but informing others of possible mishaps could violate ASME Canons 4, 7, and 9. Additional constraints to this are that engineers have to go through a hierarchy for their concerns to be noted and later shared by someone who does not have a direct understanding of ongoing projects. A solution to consider is to have a designated representative from each stakeholder, no matter the size of their role, to receive updates on big projects from the experts. More intimate forms of communication can protect privacy and build trust within those involved.


To build off of that, strict communication within a company itself is needed to be successful. However, privacy is still a concern. Another thought is how transparent Boeing should have been with all its employees, including but not limited to the engineers, business executives, and maintenance crew, about the steps in the creation of the 737 Max. If more employees of all backgrounds are aware of the intricacies of a project, there is less confusion and a higher chance for someone to speak up if they notice a project is heading in a dangerous direction. But this also has its constraints, ranging from IP concerns with so many employees having access to sensitive documents and the lack of time for an employee to give 100% of their time to every task, even those that don't fall under their job description. A solution could be to develop a standardized database and note-taking system so that only when someone from a different department needs external information, they can easily find and understand only the necessary material, thus maintaining a respectful level of privacy. 


There are many aspects of the 737 Max incidents to be discussed by the stakeholders at fault and those fallen victims to the incidents. Viewing these tragedies through various lenses and being realistic with solutions will help future engineers make safe and ethical choices. 





